Dome Keeper, in a nutshell, is a mining game in which you also have to defend the eponymous dome from the enemies. The game describes itself as a roguelike survival miner, and was released in September 2022. As an avid long-time player of roguelike games, I was excited to try it out. I was not disappointed.

Dome Keeper has a lot of things going for it. Graphically, the pixel art is very well done and pleasing for the eyes. The alien-looking worlds I visited during each of my playthroughs were all unique and interesting to look at. I sometimes found myself just admiring the scenery. Sometimes I wished I could leave the dome and explore the world outside, but with the very well-designed monsters roaming around, it is probably for the best that I couldn't. A neat little detail I appreciated was that the dome visually gets more and more damaged, with cracks appearing on the glass. The core gameplay loop consists of going underground to mine resources, and defending your dome above ground. This creates a very tense balance of risk and reward - do you go deeper to get more resources, or do you stay near the surface to defend your dome? And loaded with resources, my little player character moved much slower, so its delicate balance between greed and safety. However, Dome Keeper shows you a small countdown timer that tells you when the next wave of enemies will hit your game. I found myself often forgetting about it while being deep underground, and then needing to rush to the surface to defend my dome.
Having acquired resources, it is time to upgrade the dome. There are several different weapons to choose from, with the sword being the most difficult to use. But also the most satisfying, slashing through waves of enemies with it is pure joy. In the same vein, your player character's abilities can also be upgraded, increasing carrying capacity, drill power and movement speed. The upgrades provide a nice sense of progression and shake up the gameplay experience a bit.
Ultimately, every run of Dome Keeper will be somewhat similar - hunt for resources, upgrade resources and defend your dome. But the game is very well-designed, and the gameplay loop, although quite simple, is very satisfying. I found myself playing for hours, unlocking different upgrades and gadgets and trying to reach the deeply buried artifact that allows you to safely leave a planet and win the game.
Some players will without doubt have an issue with the somewhat repetitive nature of the game. But I found it to be a very relaxing experience, and I enjoyed every minute of it. Especially keeping in mind the small two-person team that made this game, I think it is a very well-made game that is worth your time if you are a fan of roguelikes.